# Carbon Footprint Calculator

DESCRIPTION

The title of this project is Carbon Footprint Calculator. Carbon Footprint Calculator is a program to calculate carbon emissions generated by a person in our surroundings.

REQUIREMENTS

High Level Requirements: -

• This project is used calculate our carbon footprint (carbon emissions).
• It helps calculate our carbon footprint and take steps to lower it down.
• It also provides tips & tricks to lower the carbon emission by us.
• It rates our environment on the basis of the score which helps us to estimate our contribution in emitting carbon in our surroundings.

Low Level Requirements: -

• This program takes input from the user to store various kinds of information such as the annual electricity bill units, monthly petrol usage in liters, annual LPG bill units and average mileage.
• We multiply the value of electricity bill units by 12 and 0.85 • We then multiply the value of petrol usage by 2.296.
• LPG bill units is multiplied by 14 and 2.983.
• Average mileage is multiplied by 0.79 .
• Then the program takes the sum of all the above values.
• Then it displays the score and informs us about the carbon emissions around us.


*High level Requirements*

|  ID|Description|Status|
  |---|---|---|
  | HR01 | Calculates carbon emissions| Implemented |
  | HR02 | Displays carbon emission and suggests to lower it | Impemented|
  | HR03 | Rates suurounding environment according to carbon emission score | Implemented|
  | HR04 | Display list which includes the steps and preventive to lower the carbon emission| Future|
  
  
  *Low Level Requirements*
|  ID|Description|Status|
  |---|---|---|
  | LR01 | Enter data from user| Implemented |
  | LR02 | Calculating score according to the carbon emission factor | Impemented|
  | LR03 | Adding new parametres which contribute in carbon emission| Future|
  




SWOT ANALYSIS

Strength- It Calculates the Carbon Emission value in your surroundings released by you. According to your score it detects and recommends the step you need to take to better yourself and emit less carbon in your surroundings.

Weakness - It does not include all parametres and gives an approximate value and not a fully accurate value.

Opportunities- This carbon footprint calculator helps better your life and helps to reduce global warming across the globe in the near future.

4W's 1H What- Carbon Footprint Calculator

where- In Homes,Workspaces.

When - Anytime to calculate the carbon emission.

Why- To calculate carbon emissions and steps to lower it.

How- It will ask user to give inputs in form of parametres like Petrol consumption,gas consumption etc and based on this calculate the carbon emission score.


Implementation - All the code files are attached here, in this folder.


  ## Test plan and test ouput


| Test ID | Description | Expected Input | Expected Output | Type of Test | Status |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| LTP01 | Test to calculate carbon emission score | Details of the user | carbon emission score according to the user details | Technical | Pass|

  


Images- In this all the codes along with the output is attached.


 The program is successfully executed using main.c carbon.h and carbon.c, It gives the output in form of score which lets us know about the carbon emissions in LOW,HIGH and MODERATE format.
